# imagecolors - Extract colors from images
This module uses PIL(Pillow) to extract colors from images
### Available functions
#### average(image, name=None, downsample=True, max_size=100, alpha_threshold=None)
Averages a single image into RGB color values. Returns a dictionary with the following keys: name, red, green, blue
* **image** - filename (string), pathlib.Path object or a file object. The file object must implement *read()*, *seek()*, and *tell()* methods, and be opened in binary mode.
* **name** -  auto generated by calling .split(os.sep)[-1] on *image* - unless set.
* **downsample** - chooses if downsampling is enabled to speed up processing. Enabled by default.
* **max_size** - max length of longest side if *downsample* is True
* **alpha_threshold** - level at which transparent pixels are excluded from the average. Default is 245

#### average_images(dir_in)
Averages each individual image in a directory and returns a list with an entry for each image successfully averaged. Returns a list containing a dictionary for each image with the following keys: name, red, green, blue
* **dir_in** - path to directory

#### directory_average(dir_in, name=None)
Averages all images in a directory to a singular RGB directory average. Returns a dictionary with the following keys: name, red, green, blue
* **dir_in** - path to directory
* **name** - is auto generated by calling .split(os.sep)[-1] on *dir_in* unless set.

#### nested_directory_average(root_dir)
Accepts the path to a directory and walks all the enclosed directories calling *average_directory* for each one that contains images. Returns a list containing a dictionary for each directory with the following keys: name, red, green, blue
* **root_dir** - path to starting directory

### Future work
* update import export functions to use dictionary interface
* add more information to readme

### Tests
Testing is done with pytest http://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/

**To run tests** *pytest* **or** *python3 -m pytest test* from the project root directory.
